foreign
[Music]
well hey everyone I'm excited to bring
you
um an amazing guest
um Professor C free okay he's the author
of this book right here
cancer as a metabolic disease this is a
this is my new favorite book Incredible
you need a little bit of biochemistry to
get through it but there's a lot of
parts that are really easy to understand
and
um
so Professor sea freed has taught and
conducted research in the field of
neurogenetics neurochemistry and cancer
for more than 25 years at Yale
University Boston College he's published
more than 150 scientific articles and
book chapters and is on the editorial
Boards of nutrition and Metabolism
Journal of lipid research neurochemical
research and ASM neuro so welcome and I
really appreciate you spending some time
talking with me today well thanks Eric
it's nice to be here absolutely
um I think it's important to start out
um if we could on the the big idea here
where um and kind of if you could do it
in late person's uh language just to
describe the difference between uh a
normal cell and cancer cell I think
that's important to just talk about that
yeah well
um there are many differences uh uh the
prime difference in my mind is the
difference in in the way the cells
generate energy
and um all the cells in our body need to
and otherwise they die you know I mean
energy is energy
so our whole bodies we breathe in oxygen
and we give off CO2 and produce water as
byproducts of aerobic respiration
and that's the primary way that most of
the cells in our bodies generate energy
the tumor cell on the other hand
um pretty much functions without oxygen
so uh in order to function without
oxygen uh this is referred to as
fermentation it's a fermentation ancient
pathway by which cells can generate
energy without oxygen so all tumor cells
as far as I can see and as far as I've
looked at
are more dependent on fermentation for
energy than they are for uh respiration
for energy using oxygen so this is why
they live in hypoxic environments they
can survive in these environments
because they primarily ferment
um and when you ferment you become
Limited in in the types of fuels that
you need because
oxidative phosphorylation respiration is
an extremely
efficient way to generate ATP energy you
need a little bit of material like
glucose or some other fat or whatever
and you can generate large amounts of
energy just from respiration but if you
don't respire the fermentation pathways
are less efficient therefore the
substrates have to be present in large
amounts
so the tumor cell is dependent on large
amounts of glucose and large amounts of
glutamine and those are the two front
primary fermentable fuels so the
differences between a normal cell and a
cancer cell is primarily the way they
generate energy the tumor cell needs to
ferment the normal cells can respire
got it and um can you touch on the
origin of cancer because I think a
mainstream research is really focused on
this genetic piece but they're not
getting into the metabolic or the damage
to the mitochondria can you touch on
that well I mean that's the oncogenic
Paradox excuse me basically cancer can
be caused by many different
insults to our body
um carcinogens you know people people
look at that and they say well that's
why we call something a carcinogen
because it has the potential to cause
cancer in laboratory animals and humans
you know radiation causes cancer viruses
cause cancer so the question is how are
these how are these provocative agents
causing cancer
the gene Theory says that the carcinogen
will cause mutations and the mutations
then lead to dysregulated cell growth so
you have to say what is the primary
characteristic of tumor and it is
dysregulated cell growth so how does a
cell under normal conditions become
dysregulated in its growth so for
example a carcinogen
um is thought to cause a type of
mutation which will then cause the tumor
cell to uh become growth unrestricted
um and and if you look at radiation is
thought to cause mutations some viruses
are thought to cause mutations and these
mutations were thought to be the cause
of the cancer
however every one of those same
provocative agents also damages the
mitochondria in the cell the very
organelle needed for normal respiration
now what happens is a carcinogen will
enter into the mitochondria leading to
the formation of Ross reactive oxygen
species which are carcinogens and
mutagens
so what happens the mitochondria
produces Ross which then causes the
mutations so the mutations are an effect
of the damage to the respiration not the
cause of the cancer the cancer and the
mutations are both effects of the damage
to the respiration so this changes the
whole game as to what the nature of this
disease is and we went through and
documented very carefully all of the
different agents that cause cancer and
every one of them damaged first damages
the respiration leading to Ross leading
to the mutations so this whole concept
of of mutations is mostly nonsense it's
absolutely a misdirected effort which is
a a and the tragic consequences over
1600 people a day are dying from cancer
as the result of this tragic
misunderstanding of the nature of the
disease wow
so um have you ever done any research or
heard about research being done using
something like um ip6 phytic acid as a
purifying accident to counter some of
the free radical damage
uh well that's more it would be in line
of prevention so
um you know the if you can prevent free
radical damage to your mitochondria
you're going to prevent cancer cancer
does not start nor with normal
mitochondria so things that would be uh
um uh reducing reactive oxygen species
or inflammation or things like this
would all be important in preventing the
disease but once the disease starts you
have an altogether different strategy
that's needed
wow are there um microscopic cancer
cells in in pretty much everyone
is there any data on that
um
you know I I'm not sure about that I
mean most healthy tissues you don't see
cancer cells you know you only see
cancer cells when they become uh enough
to see you know make they make these
statements you know we all have cancer
yeah we all those cells are usually
destroyed you know and
um taken care of well we we turn over
ourselves all the time
um you know when a cell gets damaged
it's turned over I mean we have a we
have a maintenance system they turn over
the cells a cancer cell it would be a
cell that would not be turned over now
um do we have pre-cancerous lesions I
think uh if we have focal inflammatory
sections we would have certain these are
referred to oftentimes as polyps or
something along these lines you know
small growths and things but they're
generally benign they're not they're not
of the of a more invasive malignant
characteristic so I guess you can say
that we probably have these things but
it's only when the tumor cell begins to
invade the local environment and
proliferate that we have an issue got it
so so discuss the some of the research
that you talked about in some of the
other videos uh using ketogenic
intermittent fasting and also done
um and maybe you can Define that well
Dawn is a is a glutamine analog it's um
I cannot I can always I don't have the
the the the the structure memorized but
it's uh six Azo nor leucine and uh the
the an acronym of course is Dawn d-o-n
but this is a glutamine targeting drug
uh we have not found any drug more
powerful than Don at this point
um people
um because cancer needs it needs the two
fuels glucose and glutamine so basically
the ketogenic diet is targeting your
glucose uh and Shifting the whole body
off to ketones tumor cells can't use
ketones because you need a good
mitochondria and if people say Keith
cancers use ketones that would mean they
have a normal mitochondria and they
wouldn't be cancer in the first place so
uh you find a lot of misinformation
misunderstanding on a part of a
significant number of scientists by the
way that still are confused by this so
it's not just the lay public they
depended on the scientists who
themselves are also confused many of
them not all of them about these issues
so the tumor cell needs glutamine and
glucose some tumors are more dependent
on glucose than glutamine some are more
dependent on glutamine than glucose many
of them need both glucose and glutamine
so it's one of these kinds of things but
if you take away both glucose and
glutamine I don't know of any tumor cell
none of that none that we have ever
found can survive without their two key
fermentable fuels so don is one of the
drugs that targets and and takes away
the glutamine whereas the ketogenic diet
takes away the glucose so together these
two uh work synergistically together and
would be effective in my mind of of
probably managing the vast majority of
all types of cancers
the the question is you know there's not
a single
uh Hospital
Cancer Research Center anywhere in the
world that's doing this so this is the
reason why we have 1600 people a day
dying from a disease it becomes clear
you know you're not doing the right
things if you did the right things you
wouldn't have what these people would be
alive right and what kind of um uh some
success have you seen on these
experiments that you I watched another
video that you're you're combining these
three strategies and getting some pretty
good amazing major effects yeah we are
and when we do it and we haven't really
you know if you go back in the
literature look at at dawn with patience
um there some people did really well and
some people didn't do so well
um and none of the none of this previous
studies ever targeted glutamine
simultaneously with targeting glucose uh
with glutamine and glucose so so people
use ketogenic diets and think you're
going to cure cancer with a ketogenic
diet not if it's a glutamine dependent
tuber you're not so so people have to
realize that it's you got if you don't
hit both both fuels simultaneously
um and they always say well the cancer
cells are smart they're not smart and
they adapt they don't adapt they're
they're just using the fuels that are
invite in the environment and if you
don't take the fuels away from the
environment it's going to look like
they're adapting and it's going to look
like they're smart but they're not so
they're very they're they're dependent
on two fuels and if they have access to
those fuels they will survive if the
fuels are taken away they will not
survive it's not a complicated problem
it's just that when you're chasing genes
and you think cancer is a genetic
disease you don't think about any of
this stuff right I mean it's just that
now where are you looking you know so
it's not you know when we do it in our
pre-clinical systems which are the best
there are because we developed the real
models for representing real cancer it's
very hard to kill these in in the mouse
uh but when we when we combine the two
strategies together we're getting great
success and and we are targeting
glutamine in patients not with Dawn yet
because it's it's not available
um in in sufficient quantities people
don't know how to use it a lot of the
clinicians are concerned about this or
that but um you know it's less toxic
than most of the stuff they're already
giving these poor cancer patients
um so so you know what's going to happen
I mean we're working with clinical
groups and uh oncology groups uh in
different countries which are more open
to uh trying these kinds of things and
and we are achieving great success in a
number of patients for all kinds of
cancers because cancer is one disease
it's all the same whether you have a
lymphoma a brain tumor a colon tumor a
breast tumor a bladder tumor it's all
the same they ferment it's such a simple
it's it's I mean it's just like you can
you can kill the whole group of them
just by knowing how to use one tool so
um yeah it's astonishing uh and who's
doing this nobody
only because people don't understand go
down to the top oncology clinics and
tell them what I just told you and they
look at like you're in a headlight they
wouldn't know what it's not but it's not
that lay people understand this better
than the guy who actually treating the
disease
yeah it's really it's hard to teach
people who uh know it all or at least
think they know it all
right well if they know it all how come
we have 1600 people a day dying I mean
obviously that much they have a lot of
fixed ideas yeah well and and the tragic
consequences is all these poor people
suffering and dying that's the
consequences of the lack of knowledge it
really is so you said there's a there's
I think uh there's several clinical
studies going on right now
um using these strategies around the
world well I wouldn't call them clinical
studies I would call them patients being
treated
all right so
um because you know my colleagues are
overwhelmed with patients who have all
kinds of cancers and uh we we they uh
I'm not a physician but they consult
with me and we design strategies uh and
the patients are doing well now are they
part of what we call a clinical trial
um where it would be set up as if we
were testing a new drug no the answer is
no uh are we getting survivors that are
looking pretty healthy the answer is yes
so how would we do a clinical trial well
first of all you have to have people
that understand how to do the the
procedure and second of all you have to
go against the standard of care which
doesn't allow you to do this because
it's not appropriately designed in the
light of what what the standard
procedures are so when they say we're
going to do a clinical trial only after
you do uh radiation and chemotherapies
are your last the whole thing is just
doesn't work and um you know the
pharmaceutical companies and the top
Medical schools have designed procedures
where double blind crossovers are used
which are the strategy for a single drug
looking at some particular one thing
we're using diets we're using
combinations of drugs and procedures
cocktails you know all done in different
dosage timing and scheduling the
ultimate goal is can you keep this guy
alive right healthy is he not sick I
mean these are the 10 points you know
and this doesn't fit with the current
standards of what you're considered a
clinical trial so this is blocked right
from the beginning so so what you want
to do is how many people can we write up
as case reports people that should be
dead that are still alive without hair
loss without sickness without any of
these kinds of things and keep
publishing these papers and this is what
we do and eventually somebody's going to
say I want to do that right right yeah
there's just probably not a lot of money
in this because um I mean it's it's
it I mean there's a lot of money in
medication but there's not a probably a
lot of funding and it's just hard to get
funding yeah well you can't you know
what do you you know you get a lot of
money to study cancer
and you get a lot of money to treat the
disease but you don't get much money if
you're tempting to resolve it you know
um so you know we're in the resolution
business and
um every person that walks longer on the
planet than they should have been is a
success in itself
so we're interested more in these
survivors these long the so-called rare
long-term survivors that you should not
see like for glioblastoma right
pancreatic cancer and these kinds of
things Advanced lung and breast
metastatic breast cancer I mean if you
keep people alive on a regular basis far
longer than they should have been then
you know you know you're on the right
path now what we do here at Boston
College is we ferret out the mechanisms
by which this works so um this then for
you're falling back on hard science
you're not falling back on you know some
some mysterious unknown thing so we we
characterize the molecular mechanisms by
which all this works then we go into the
uh it is funny because all these
companies they use these pre-clinical
models and most of the time it doesn't
work when you get something that works
in a pre-clinical model oh well that's
only a mouse
so you have to show it works in humans
in fact the humans do better than the
mice so so
um so how many more of these patients
and Publications yeah we're working on
this my friends bring me the data who
who work in the clinics and we sit down
and we write up the case reports and we
publish them and they get a lot of
recognition but you know there the
problem is you can't Institute this yet
at the top medical schools because if it
goes against the standards of care you
have to change your standard of care
which means you got to primarily get rid
of radiation and primarily get rid of
toxic chemo and and those two aren't
going aways anytime soon
I see the problem it's pretty obvious
yeah it's clear it's clear so um but you
know Revenue generation you know we use
hyperbaric oxygen
um you know the some of the we some of
my colleagues use the lowest of the
low-dose chemo only because they have to
you know we really don't need to use
that but um you know there's other ways
you can probably generate Revenue I'm
not into the generation Revenue business
I'm just into the business of knowing is
the is this is the therapeutic strategy
effective does it work and and do we
have evidence to support that and what
is the science behind it because that's
my job okay so if I can show that it
works in this Baseline a solid
scientific background then it becomes it
becomes unconscionable not to use it
right exactly I agree now in your book
you mentioned this term I've never heard
about it before in
inflammatory onco taxis which basically
is interesting because uh well maybe you
can just talk about it well this is a a
provocation of a of a somewhat
semi-malignant state
so
um uh it it the the the the inflammatory
micro environment will stimulate tumor
cells or incipient tumor cells to move
um and we we have this and it's um wound
uh in other words you can we have shown
and others uh have shown that the
metastatic cancer cell is actually part
of our immune system it's a macrophage a
macrophage is one of the cells in our
bodies uh it's a very it's a very
important cell for killing bacteria
repairing wounds and this kind of thing
so these cells are like the toughest
cell in our body they can survive in
hypoxic environments they they they
they're a real a real tough cell
um these cells fuse with some of these
other kinds of
um I would say not benign
um stem kind of cells that don't have
the capacity to move around your body
and and they they form these micro
environments that cause Fusion
hybridization now you have a Mac a tumor
cell that has the capacity to spread
through your whole body based on the on
the genetic behavior of the macrophone
so so does it morph into a macrophages
or is that kind of just experiencing the
characteristics it seems to be some sort
of a hybrid condition where the the
cancer stem cell which doesn't have the
capacity to metastasize fuses with a
normal cell uh and then they become this
hybrid cell now the hybrid cell of
course has damage respiration so you
have a cell that's uh that's
dysregulated in its growth but also has
the capacity to spread around the body
so so and these cells home in on wounds
and uh are provoked by by different
kinds of micro environments so the the
the the example
um one of the examples we use for
inflammatory onco taxis is when people
take needle biopsies of cancer cancer
tissue like in breasts for example you
know they always say well let's do a
needle by biopsy on this person's breast
tumor to characterize the genetic
mutations that might be there right so
what they do is they take a needle
biopsy of a potentially benign growth
which then forms a inflammatory
oncotaxis situation leading to the the
the the the spread of a previously
benign tumor into a malignant tumor by
the very fact that you took the to test
it to see what kind of cancer it might
be right so this poor woman who may have
had a benign tumor now has a malignant
tumor just because some guy wants to
look at the gene mutations in the tumor
which would mean absolutely nothing
anyway
so you put this person at terrible risk
you know it doesn't happen all the time
but it happens significantly enough that
there's a Publications on this not only
for they do but needle biopsies and a
lot of different kinds of tumors and
this is what happens so you put the
person at risk uh by spreading the tumor
when it wasn't necessary to spread in
the first place this is one of the
reasons why they they get rid of the
morsellation procedure for removing
uterine polyps and females right so this
was the Johnson Johnson machine that
would be uh grind up your uterine polyps
and suck it up and there were a
physician from Harvard a young lady a a
physician herself got metastatic uterine
cancer and died from the morsellation
procedure and then they found out that
this was uh common and not common uh it
happened significantly enough to know
that there was a real problem well this
is all an example of inflammatory
onco-taxis you're you're stabbing you're
stabbing a beehive and you don't want
the bees to come out right so the best
thing to do is use metabolic there be
shrink it down into a tiny little thing
and then surgically to bulk it so you
never stick it with anything you just
get rid of it so once you understand the
biology of the disease you'll realize
that most of what we do in the cancer
field would never be should never be
done
so and this it comes back to the lack of
knowledge on the biology of the disease
so once you understand the biology
there's certain things you should never
do and yet they do all the time insane
so basically what what he's talking
about guys is that cancer tends to
invade areas of inflammation and
mechanical injury right yeah yeah you
can injure it's called It's called The
investigator uh by by investigating you
provoke and it's inflammatory onco taxis
leading to the spread of the disease so
um you know you don't want to do that
but yeah here's the situation you get
the the insurance companies will pay
seven thousand two hundred dollars to
have you get a full readout of the gene
mutations in your tumor so there's a
there's an in there's a financial
incentive to take a needle biology
biopsy just to see the mutations which
as I said mean nothing anyway so so uh
but you put that you potentially can put
a patient at risk for spreading the
Disease by and analyzing information
that's largely worthless wow wow yeah
because even in my clinic I just noticed
I've observed
um when people with cancer they usually
always had a pre-existing injury like I
had a guy fell on his back of his neck
on the brain stem he developed cancer on
the brain stem another person
got hit with a baseball and the breast
she got cancer on that location I just
found it interesting that there's this
correlation between old Engineers
sometimes in fact there are reports uh
that if you have an incipient metastatic
lesion in your body and you get a wound
in another part of your body the tumor
cells will move from from one side over
to the wound site wow that was also
reported for people who had tooth
extraction because if you take an
extracted tooth you create a great big
wound in your gum and uh tumor cells
like from from a lung uh in a small lung
that test would would then invade the
wound and the tooth and uh this is
because it's a macrophage macrophages do
this so it all comes back to what what
the biology of the metastatic cell is
and when you know it's a macrophage you
say what do they eat well they they're
heavily glutamine dependent so you just
take away their glutamine so once you
know the biology of the of the thing
there's so many easy ways to kill these
cells wow I think it's it's hard to
avoid glutamine in the diet because it's
in almost every food dude yeah you can't
you can't you have to use drugs and
that's why we use Dawn and egcg the
green tea extract which you know we're
still looking into that uh possibly
chloroquine there are a number of other
drugs that could be uh used that would
be specifically targeting the tumor cell
well not harming the normal cells wow
wow um on your website I think then the
website that you have there's a place
where people can actually donate as well
to the Boston College right specifically
to your research yeah we have the Boston
College
um uh cancer Fund in my name we also
have a lot of people donating to uh
Travis christopherson's
um um
metabolic therapy it used to be called
The Single cause single cure Foundation
he set that Foundation up to support our
work
um which 100 of the 100 100 of the money
he raises goes to the research not not
ninety percent a hundred percent see
that's that's what I was going to ask
you because I mean with all this cancer
breast research I mean it's rarely if
you would get hardly anything so this is
really good news well you know the you
know it's very interesting we get a lot
of small donations sometimes you know
people will throw in bigger amounts but
um you know and most of the people that
contact me are people that that I don't
have a lot of means
um
the people with great insurance policies
and who are who are people of means they
go to the top medical schools the top
cancer research centers uh to get
treated which is like you know so the
people that'll survived will be the
people the people who have don't have
money money means basically the poor
people would be the ones that will
survive cancer right right better than
the rich people you know because because
what we what we do is we we target the
basic biology the the tragedy is right
now is that the
um we don't have enough Physicians that
are trained to do this so there's a huge
gap in in how and what we understand and
in the actual uh uh procedures to treat
the patients and this is where the
tragedy is I think because because the
poor the physicians in the medical
schools are never trained to understand
cancer as a metabolic disease you know
they've been they've been indoctrinated
by the gene Theory and they think
therefore radiation and chemo become a
logical uh approach to managing the
disease but once you understand that
this is not the nature of the disease
then all that stuff makes no sense it
harms the patient right it causes
tremendous Grief Strategy I mean it
really it really puts now of course
there's many cancer patients that
survive standards of care but their
bodies have been beat up and they take
tremendous risk in putting themselves at
risk for other kinds of maladies in the
future
yeah so so so so basically
um we raise money through
um these private found that Travis's
christopherson's private Foundation
basically and through Boston College
um uh my my own University
uh uh uh web page and they uh on even on
my
um Boston College uh preview page
there's ways that people can donate to
the unit to the university
um that way as well I'm gonna put some
links down below um because I know a lot
of people want to donate to this
um what um what are the success rates of
that
cancer therapies that are going on right
now I know it's not great as far as
um
I don't know what they Define as being
successful but um yeah well the top you
know you hear all uh on the news right
now is the uh immunotherapies you know
katruda up Devo the newest one is the
cart car T you know immunotherapy where
uh it's just beyond my comprehension now
why anybody would would do stuff like
this I mean it's just
um very complicated very risky very very
very expensive
um you know patients they take your T
cells for lymphomas and they and they
genetically engineer your teeth T cells
at a different site and then you put
those genetic those engineered T cells
are now supposed to Target and track
down the cancer cells in your body and
then your body has to be purged of any
of its regular T cells and it's it's
just I call these kinds of therapies
Rube Goldberg machines
they're they're very very complicated
ways of doing something very simple
um you know the goal is trying to track
and kill tumor cells using immunotherapy
um and these immunotherapies sometimes
can be a go wild on you they could start
attacking your normal organs you know
it's like letting the pack of wild dogs
loose you know so they could sometimes
turn on you and
um and you know there are success
stories I mean there certainly are
success but there's just an equal number
of of tragedies and deaths I mean why
would you ever want to treat a patient
with something that has the possibility
of harming or killing them right that
should not be a part of the question at
all exactly
totally insane it's insane and
especially when all you have to do is
take away glucose and glutamine yeah and
especially these lymphomas these you
know these diffuse these cell lymphoma
they're all dependent on glutamine so
all you have to do is Target glutamine
why are we doing this I think it's too
simple that's the problem that's the
truth it is too simple
um and uh only it's simple because you
have been indoctrinated to think cancer
is an extremely complicated disease yeah
then you chase complication with more
complication and and and you create
these incredibly expensive and
complicated immunotherapeutic procedures
but all you have to do is take away
glucose and glutamine you know because
and then they'll say well that's not
proven what do you mean it's not proven
there's a thousand articles
yeah what I'm saying is is is there's
thousands of articles in the scientific
literature supporting what I'm saying
yeah you have I mean this this book is
I don't know how long it took you to
write this but this is quite an amazing
book you have all the our the arguments
against the theory and you you just go
right through and and just you know
explain they're missing data it's false
they haven't read it they so there's
just so much great data in here um
I'm just really impressed yeah it took a
while to write it you know but at some
point in your life when you have
collected enough data to say there's
something seriously wrong here and Anna
Warburg was really the guy who who
started this back in the 1920s and he
clearly defined what the origin of the
disease was which was that damage to the
mitochondrial respiration
the problem is he didn't have all of the
other aspects of this there were some
missing parts to his argument and those
few missing parts led to the the idea
that he was wrong uh he wasn't wrong he
was spot on it's just that he did not
have all of the new evidence that we now
have to suspect
yeah he did not know about glutamine
amino acid fermentation he just knew
about glucose fermentation so so he
didn't know the other half and that's
why people think he was wrong he wasn't
wrong he was right he just didn't have
all the parts of the puzzle so we have
now filled in those gaps and we know
that he was right and now the disease
can be managed in a much more less toxic
in a more effective manner it's just
that right now we've built a massive
industry around this cancer thinking
that we have to treat these patients
with all this expensive toxic stuff and
and you don't really need to do that and
then when somebody comes along like me
to tell them that hey you're on the
wrong path they're going to find every
thousand reasons why I'm wrong and uh
and the answer is I'm basing it on
thousands of scientific articles
published in the top research journals
in the world which you have right in
this book yeah and there's many many
more you know it's coming they're coming
out all the time
so it's very it's very interesting in
the cancer research industry uh many
people have have found that glucose and
glutamine are are priming what they
don't do is they don't they don't take
that and bring it to the clinic so and
the clinicians who are treating with
radiation chemo can't believe that you
can create your cancer in such a short I
want to say cure but you can certainly
manage it
um we don't know about curing I don't
like to use the word cure because we
don't really know but if you're alive
far longer than you were predicted to be
uh I don't want to say you're cured
you're certainly long-term managed and
isn't that the goal is that what we can
do yeah and I think even you meant you
mentioned in some of the my studies
there was was it 14 or 15 days you saw
you saw some significant changes with
cancer being destroyed right yeah oh
absolutely I mean we're hunting now
we've got some of the finest uh
Pathologists on the planet uh hunting
for surviving cancer cells in the
tissues so so uh you know we're looking
you know we've killed sometimes it's so
hard when you look at a tissue that's
been treated with metabolic therapy I
mean it's just a Slaughter these tumor
cells are dead and dying everywhere so
uh and we and sometimes you get so
overwhelmed and say wow look at the mass
death but is there any is there anybody
live in that population that we should
be concerned about right right we're
trying to find we're trying to find the
needle in the haystack the lives that
made it through the metabolic therapy so
um and that's where we're at now and I'm
working with uh colleagues in Venezuela
who are just superb Pathologists the
best thought I've ever seen and we're
really hunting down to see if we can
find any cell that can survive this
metabolic therapy wow yeah that's
interesting because if you can't if you
can't find that that would uh mean that
this is a hundred percent I mean it's
the way to go I can't say that for sure
like so we can't say that every single
cell because you know we found that some
of these macrophage kinds of cells
um they also can phagocytize and eat
dead cells so um they can get their
glucose and glutamine by eating a dead
cell that was killed
wow amazing that's why we have to go
after uh their lysosomes which are their
internal stomach and you put in antacids
so they can't digest what they just ate
so what what once you understand the
biology you can really get excited on
the numerous ways you can kill these
cancer cells without harming the rest of
the body
so it's going to be very exciting once
the once the medical field comes to know
how how to do this it's going to be you
know wow you know here's a new patient
let's see how many ways we can kill his
cancer cells and keep them healthy
what we're finding is many of these
cancer patients have all kinds of other
metabolic maladies they have high
triglycerides they've got type 2
diabetes they've got all kinds of other
issues well all that goes away when
you're killing the tumor cells
wow so these patients get much healthier
and they have and their cancer is
managed so uh it's a it's a strategy
that works on multiple different uh
fronts wow is there is there any clinics
now that are doing
um I mean existing doing some of this
yeah what we have the main one is in
Istanbul Turkey uh where where uh Dr
barcarta also read my book
and he realized that we need to do
something different
um and uh they then developed the uh
chemotherapy assisted metabolic therapy
where they're using very very low doses
of chemo
um just barely
within the rep within the guidelines of
standard of care and then doing
metabolic therapy which includes insulin
potentiation Hyperbaric oxygens
ketogenic diets this kind of thing
and they're getting some spectacular
results on all kinds of of stage four
they only do stage four metastatic
cancers wow you know and they're doing
they're getting results on uterine
cancer pain uh ovarian Advanced Breast
pancreatic cancer and then my colleagues
in in Egypt uh Alexandria are using
glioblastoma so they're getting pretty
good results on glioblastoma that's one
of the most aggressive uh brain tumors
right it used to be yeah
laughs
not anymore not anymore wow so you know
um so if you know what you're doing and
you know how to do it uh many of these
so-called uh terminal cancers uh May no
longer be terminal and um but you know
the problem is so many people come to me
after having failed radiation and chemo
immunotherapy whatever they're throwing
at you and by that time your whole body
is so beat up and so destroyed uh
sometimes they can't rally
um you can't get your normal cells to
Rally to destroy the tumor cells because
you have been so compromised by an
inefficient uh treatment strategy and
there's a tragedy right there so on the
other hand there are some people who
I've been beat up to hell I can't
believe that they're still walking who
have been rescued uh from this um so
I've seen it all I mean we've seen one
or another we don't rescue everyone but
if we hit these guys up up front with
them metabolic therapy I think we
probably get an 80 to 85 to 90 percent
uh management rate without toxicity so
but when people and nobody can believe
this they say well this can't be
but why why can't you believe it you
know right scientific literature what's
the matter with it now we read it and we
understand it and we see it when we do
it right so it's not just pre-clinical
my pre-clinical system is designed to
help the physicians in the clinic use
the right doses timing and strategies on
their patients so it's a kind of a we're
one of the few groups that actually does
translational research where we take
research from the mice and put it
directly into the human so people talk
the talk they don't walk the walk right
yeah we do do you do you find that if um
if you had a lot more money could you do
a lot more research I mean is is that
lacking right now or is there
um yeah that's absolutely right I mean
obviously you know we're working with
undergraduates and part-time
professionals uh and we could streamline
this whole thing 10 times faster if we
had more research you know when we apply
for research grants at the NIH they're
always asking you know what Gene is
involved you know how what do you it's
irrelevant you know so and it's not
their fault because the guy's sitting on
the study section all are interested in
supporting their own research and uh and
they're all looking at different drugs
and and genes and this kind of thing and
um so it's very hard to I used to have a
lot of money from the NIH when I wasn't
trying to cure the disease
as soon as you mentioned that you had
something that will work oh all the
research all the money stops so then we
become dependent on private foundations
and the the goodness of others that want
to support this you know they have a
family member or something like this but
you know we could bring this and and and
uh my colleagues that are in Istanbul
and they're overwhelmed they're being
trampled by the number of patients that
are coming into their clinics they they
don't have the time
that they would like to have
um and they're also under the gun uh by
their own uh their their their own
colleagues are angry because
um it's just like having something
that's uh you know you're taking away
all my patients now they're all or they
all want to go to your your side of the
clinic and not my side of the clinic and
and you know and we're seeing more and
more of this so um everybody doing this
is is threatening a system
um uh an entire industry uh that's
failed and we have we and we know
because I wouldn't speak like this if I
hadn't seen the results myself
so uh and the mice but um yeah but we
you know as I said in our press pulse
paper uh which was we published with a
couple of Physicians and myself Joe
maroon is the a neurosurgeon at
University of Pittsburgh and team
surgeon for the Pittsburgh Steelers he's
with us on this you know Dr George you
he's an oncologist Don de August
Christina my colleague who does
hyperbaric oxygen you know we're
publishing these papers but to really to
really get to the heart we there are so
many new drugs that we can combine for
metabolic therapy with ketogenic diets
um you know you see more and more people
wanting to do this but you know the
knowledge base that we have is greater
than anyone else's because we've been
doing it before anyone else did it right
so um you know we've been doing this for
almost 20 years now but we're just
learning how many new combinations
non-toxic combinations that we could put
together to resolve cancer but we need
the research money to do this and we
want to show
we we want to find a tumor somewhere
that doesn't respond to metabolic
therapy and we haven't found this yet so
if we can show that every major cancer
is demolished then um what more evidence
the what what what do we have to do
right yeah because there's always this
wild variable that well we can't
understand this one certain thing that
doesn't respond well if you can solve
that that
so far we haven't found that one thing
you know it's just like because it's
it's based so clearly on what the
underlying problem is yeah and uh and
then we have new now Don is prop we call
it a miracle drug
um and they don't want to use it because
they said it was too toxic but we we now
have evidence that when you combine with
ketogenic diet the toxicity is
significantly reduced wow well we have a
miracle drug and we just have to prove
that it's miracle for every kind of
cancer that exists
that's all oh okay good yeah so you need
money to do that because you have to
it's all laboral intensive because when
you're doing uh Mouse work uh the mice
are very very expensive and the labor to
do the research is expensive so but
expensive relative to what cartoon
therapy right which four hundred
thousand dollars a patient oh insane
well usually you know things that really
work are simple so
um you I'm just blown away by this
interview this is incredible yeah well
you know as I said if you collect
questions because a lot of people have
many many kinds of questions not only
about the science but about the direct
applicability of this and and you will
hear a lot of questions
um like oh what about listen I've I've
gotten almost every kind of a question
from every kind of a physician from
every kind of a science researcher you
know how do you explain this how do you
explain that hey explain this and we go
through and give them explaining I can't
it's always something that comes along
we can't explain but then I throw my
Army of students on top of it and you
know within a few months we have an
explanation for it so um but generally
we can address because we already have
addressed most of the concerns yeah it's
actually all right in here it's like you
really explain everything indeed well
this we've we've put on new we've
actually have stronger evidence for some
of the things that the at the big
beginning which wasn't completely clear
we even have it more clarified now wow
so
um you know it's it's an emerging it's
an emerging field it's going to be the
new field metabolic therapies yeah this
is really exciting very exciting and NDS
you know those guys
um they're in they're the best
strategists because they love to take
blood work they love to do this they
love to do that a lot of the MDS don't
do this kind of stuff and um you know
it'll open up cancer treatment to a
whole group of other people that can
actually facilitate the treatment if we
get rid of these toxic drugs and
radiation you don't have to be going to
a hospital to get right to get these
treatments you're talking about
naturopathic docs yeah natural at the
guys yeah they seem to be more into
looking at all the blood work and things
like this and I've learned things from
them so they've showed me things that I
didn't know before based on their
treatment of patients with ketogenic
diets like I elevated vitamin D levels
coming as the as the as the fat is
dissolved vitamin D is released back
into the blood you start getting
elevated vitamin D when you you don't
need to supplement as much anymore so
there's a lot of new things that are
coming up as the result of all this yeah
so um it's going to be exciting you know
it's just that it's frustrating because
because the field it doesn't know it or
doesn't want to know about it but it's
exciting to know that you have a real
strategy for the future oh my gosh that
that's what's nice to know this is
mind-blowing this is actually very very
exciting
um I mean wow I had all these questions
now they're they're gone
English
you answer them very well
um I really appreciate you spending the
time to educate us on this incredible
piece of observation and knowledge and
research and I'm going to put some links
down below and I definitely want in the
future do some updates uh see where this
is going and um it's all very very
exciting so I want to thank you for the
interview and uh I really appreciate
what you're doing so much oh thank you
Eric uh nice to have your support thanks
absolutely